hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan grabowski
this episode of the smart economy
podcast is part of a handful of episodes
we'll be releasing on gaming and
blockchain
in this episode of the gaming series i
chat with nicholas chukrun the ceo of
meta island
meta islands will be a multiplayer open
world action adventure game that will
include neo alongside other blockchains
in its gameplay environment within the
platform players will be able to earn
in-game currency tokens through things
like quests and leasing shops
then users can swap those tokens for
others on the neo ethereum and binance
smart chain networks
in this conversation nicholas and i talk
about his extensive background in the
gaming space alongside experience in the
early days of the internet and what it
was like stumbling upon cryptocurrency
we also talk about the various ways
blockchain will be implemented into the
game such as earning yield through game
fi and a dow that will one day determine
the direction of meta island
just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial advice
and that the host or guests may hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
with that said i really enjoyed chatting
with nicholas and i hope you enjoy the
conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
nicholas chucroon the ceo of meta island
how are you doing today nicholas oh i'm
feeling great it's the night and i
started the party behind
so it's a great great day here nice to
be with you thank you thank you uh we're
going to be using audio for the pod but
for those who aren't watching right now
there's uh lighting in the background
and it looks like a disco in nicholas's
office yeah it's i don't do it just for
the podcast i am doing it all the time
and when i'm doing meetings with the
guys they always like me like oh what
the where are the girls but no i'm alone
no girls is most of your team
distributed or do you have a bunch of
folks that you work with there in
thailand as well no i'm the only one in
thailand that's my choice thailand is a
little bit special it's because i love
the i love thailand and came here for 12
years so it's a little bit my second
country but
my team is spread around the world we
have russians and we have americans and
we have
people from police people from france of
course people from
kazakhstan and
iran
china
spain
so yeah we are spread around and that's
a problem because when we want to make a
meeting we are all different time zones
so yeah it's a little bit difficult
most of my meetings are in the night
yeah i don't know what time is it for
you but here is 7pm yeah it's it's nice
and early here 6am oh whoa video yeah
but uh anything for getting uh the
podcast content put out right
yeah
in our initial conversations when i
first reached out to you
you kind of briefly shared with me a
really cool
work history
and it seems like you've always been
and the work that you do on the cutting
edge
you said that you first joined the
gaming industry in the 80s when it was
kind of a fringe concept
and then after that you found work in
the internet in the 90s when it was
still a very young
phenomena
and then moving over to audio and visual
in uh the early 2000s
you came back to gaming when the unity
engine kind of made its way
and then you went into the crypto
industry in 2017
and here we are now you have all these
great kind of backgrounds and these
cutting edge and innovative industries
and technologies
and it's all coming together to build
meta island so my question is
what kind of inspires you or draws you
to
come to these cutting edge innovative
technologies well
according to the timeline you shared
with me it seemed like you were early to
everything
so how do you have your finger on the
pulse and kind of
find these industries to go into before
they're
popular or considered like a safe
industry
you know i don't have an answer but it's
become obvious that i have the feeling i
am attracted by the new technology and
and
most of the time i'm right but it took
time for me to realize that it's
it's a pattern when i started in video
games it was a coincidence i would say i
wanted to make music
and but nobody was interested in my
music my music was kind of uh michael
field bungier's
no people if they think all these guys
were great they are but at the time
nobody knew that and i was in france
basically i was the only one listening
this kind of news
and so when i was going to paris showing
what i was doing people were looking at
me like uh man why are you not doing
rock like everybody and i was like oh i
like sanitized what is this thing
and so i realized i will not make money
from that so i was at the same time
thanks to my papa my father was
interested in in computers and he was
but he was not buying them he was buying
the
the newspaper we had a lot of newspaper
about computers but he was not doing
anything just interested so
one time i had a friend who had a very
old
sinclair i think was black and white so
it was the very very beginning but when
i saw that i was it was like a shock i
wow this thing is so amazing if if
someone can make a program inside this
thing i can do it too so i started
working on the computer like this but i
was like 12
and uh i was working like crazy like
until four in the morning because i i
had no books and anything and then i
realized that okay music is not going to
make me money
but maybe
making video games is going to work so
when i was 16 17 i sent um a demo
to
someone called philippe rouresh that was
a had a company named air informatique
and they in france they were very fame
and the guy respond me immediately and
tell me oh i pay you the ticket to come
and blah blah blah and i it was such a
difference between the music industry
and the video game industry i thought
wow these people they want
so i'm gonna do that and i'm gonna
continue to make music for fun which i'm
still doing i've made a lot of albums
that are very weird and nobody cares
about it but i love it
i don't have to make money from that so
i do only what i like
but the video game was quickly
it was obvious that it will be my my
profession
so as soon as i got my bachelor degree i
i felt like i was boring and i wanted to
go to paris because i was 138 like 1000
kilometers away and that was the good so
well i found easily a job in the game
industry working for ubisoft that's how
i i started and then
step by step every time i reach a
certain level in each
of this industry i got bored like for
example in the video game industry i got
ubisoft and cryo when i did i was for 10
years about maybe 12 years i did
i think five video games by myself and i
i was producer of a lot of video games i
don't have my name into it because at
this time we didn't care about it had
many people working i was
producer but i didn't check my name in
the game but i had a lot of experience
and when i did alien which was with box
and it was a very big license and uh
when when the game was finished i was
like when i can do better than that at
first page of pc gamer have everything
television
so then i was interested in the internet
and i thought okay i want to do a
network game but at this time can you
imagine it was 1960
so my boss told me this thing i will
always remember he told me
internet is not gonna make money
everything is free on the internet at
this time it was before internet
explorer it was computer
and and i thought oh i don't care i'm
gonna learn that and i stay one year uh
with my wife looking me like when you're
gonna go work again
learning the internet and that's how i
make my website and later when i sold
the website 1.5 million
wow
and then i was like what are you gonna
do now
you know then
i moved to to the audio industry because
i like a lot of music and it was the
burgeoning
starting of all these
virtual instruments that were like wow
that's crazy i'm a programmer i'm a
musician i have to do that so
i create a company and i make like 30 or
40 of them
and i sell so very very well and because
it was a very beginning i have customers
like hanzimer
who are buying my thing because this is
the kind of guy who who is at the top of
everything you know if something new
happened buy it sorry he was buying my
stuff
and when unity started i was like i was
working on 3d because my my idea to do a
video game again was still here i wanted
to do something again but i wanted to do
it in 3d but at this time
you had to do it in a pc or on mac you
will not have something that will manage
the same
project and then you can do it for
mobile pc mac you know you had to do a
completely different game that was a
mess but unity happened to to make this
technology possible but it was on mac so
i waited
i waited that they make the pc version
and as soon as they did the version 2.5
i think i buy it
and i started to sell stuff on the asset
store so you know it's not conscience
but it's just
a way like this and because i was doing
unity i had a lot of customers i'm from
the adjacent store and one customer one
day told me you know you should do the
icu and i was like what i see what
what is that
it told me okay i'm gonna tell you
everything so he step by step this guy
who was a customer
uh doing shadows on unity just he teach
me how to do a solidity contract
basically so i went to the stratos
things
oh my god at the very beginning in 2007
or 16 and i thought wow this thing is
top you know i need to do something like
this so i did a project in solidity uh
it was 10x that is the press release
already
on the web and then i thought
if i want to understand really the core
of the crypto i need to understand
bitcoin that's why i i found a minister
and i worked two years on the blockchain
which forced me to go back to see please
please it was horrible
that was very complicated i can't
spend weeks trying to understand what
satoshi did this guy is crazy and i
learned how to make blockchain
and then i thought okay video game
blockchain
well
why not put them together and make
something that will drag the player into
the crypto that way that's how i started
to make meta iceland in 2021 saying okay
i'm gonna do it seriously i'm gonna do
another game but this time i'm gonna do
it by myself with my investors no
compromise on quality
no ubisoft
because this company they basically
they don't make you rich you make them
rich
so you're always running after the
budget and you're always disappointed by
what you're doing because they never
give you enough but the critical the
magic of crypto is that it's right you
have your budget you have the money for
doing what you print about
that's the first time
actually i really have so here i am
doing crypto and game fi and all these
kind of things and i saw i'm doing some
music to in the game like just for fun
that's really cool it seems like
crypto and blockchain was kind of the
final step that allowed this vision of
yours to make the game come to reality
is med island something that
you've been thinking about for
a long time
and you just had this vision of a 3d
open world where players can interact
and move around and party or join quests
and
the advent of the technology unity and
cryptocurrency
made it possible for you to finally get
this vision out of your head
or is it
just the culmination of everything
that's available and then you had this
idea to create meta island actually you
know i wrote a script
for a video game for ubisoft in the 80s
and this script was named adam and eve
and the and the story about that was
that you were starting with adam and eve
and they were making babies and you wear
like a goat and you it was an open world
where all these people they were making
a village and then they were praying
to you because you heard the god and all
of that has been written at this time
but it was impossible to do it
technically it was very complicated and
ubisoft they just throw the script there
are what is that and so these ideas come
from a long long
and no detect there are two things that
make it possible
of course 3d unreal is amazing it's the
best tool i ever use for making video
games it's a much better value
it's more complex as well a lot of
people are doing unity games because
it's faster cheaper
but when you start to
master unreal i mean
only your image into nation is the limit
you know because it's working it's
stable it's beautiful out of the box it
makes your idea shiny
and secondly of course crypto i mean
quick to bring something new
that's gonna change the world because it
gives to a lot of creators
the finance to do what they imagine
it's gonna make something about the
creativity it's gonna change your life
do you think that
crypto is gonna enable more
aaa kind of games and from my
understanding
aaa games are kind of just
the mainstream quality type of games
that we've grown to
love and play like halo
fortnite just high quality games like
this across pc mac console
do you think that crypto and icos and
people able to fundraise
are
going to be able to provide these types
of games you know
you have decades of experience and you
understand the way that the gaming
industry works and funding and you're
your own artist and a programmer
so you're kind of put into this unique
position where you can leverage all
these skill sets that you have and take
advantage of the opportunity because you
know what it's like to work with a
budget but what about kind of the new
game developer who
they did a really good job fundraising
but they don't understand budget
timing scope
things of this nature
do you think that we're kind of still in
too early of a phase where if somebody
fundraises
up to 10 million dollars what if they
run out of their their funding too
quickly because they don't have that
experience
is this something that you think people
can kind of work past
you know if you see this story
every time there was a real change
how do we say that like when the train
came first
there was always
an abusive use of funding and and all of
this kind of
and uh
it happened with internet if you can
remember i was in the startup when it
happened we were
buying website and we were
the number of views using all kind of
tricks we were making a lot of money
out of it and one day people realized
that it was
all fake and it crashed very badly
and uh i think crypto is the same thing
there is so much excitement
that
all the opportunists
are going to come and say oh i have a
great idea here is a pitch deck
blah blah blah blah blah and because
nobody know where what is the materials
for example
you're gonna say oh this uh boxing game
is a great metabolism boom
put 10 million on it and people are
going to lose money but out of that it's
like the sea
you have the
the water you have to thunderstorm and
and then
getting quiet and from
what will stay will be the the future
of gaming there will be the future
universal because
you you see in all this revolution
the old guys never win these new people
who come like google amazon they were
coming from scratch nobody from the
world before did the millions it was new
people but
the first one never win
the first one who comes with the first
idea they usually like an mp3.com
or maybe
x infinity they are the first one they
have a lot of success but
they are not strong enough to become the
google order so there is a need of fight
there is a need of a mess and from that
there will be
some genius people who will come from
that
when when people say that the metagross
is an industry that will represent about
trillion
in 2013. it's a big bank would say that
you can imagine if the meta island just
have one percent of that i can give the
rest to microsoft but what i see
is that
all the gaming industry
does not understand the crypto they try
but they look what ubisoft did they did
their nft thing with beacon that was
terrible the press the players everybody
rejected
and now
i talk with them because we are doing
nfts we try to make something even and
we don't want to communicate about
crypto because we scare to lose their
core players audience they want to be
ready when we go to crypto so what what
this mean this mean that
these people don't know how to
make a crypto project that works if you
compare with what sl2 my investors are
doing with
nitro league players don't know nitro
but it is 100 million dollars project
and the terra virtual who knows their
virtual well the investors know because
they make a hundred eggs at finance
but
players they don't know about it so it's
a totally new industry with new players
and i think that the people who will
have to greatest success will come from
the crypto industry but right now i
don't see too many people who
can like us mix the all the
capability that is uh doing a real great
game a real great entertainment because
it's not only a game it's a toys and
also a great uh
crypto project that will be
liked by industry it's not easy yeah it
seems that
the crypto games that will survive come
from
folks like yourself who have a
background in gaming
but this is also a chicken and the egg
sort of thing because
people who understand crypto might not
necessarily have come from the gaming
background
so
how do you create a really sticky great
game that a regular gamer will use not
necessarily somebody who's interested in
crypto it's a really kind of tricky
question right now because axe infinity
it seems like those guys understood how
to integrate blockchain and nfts into
the game but the game is still very
basic right now
and it's fun
you know at first but the novelty wears
off really quickly
and that's something that i think is
really cool about meta island
is that you're bringing this really well
developed world
that looks like it's just gonna be fun
to play i kind of get like
fortnite halo kind of vibes mostly
because that's what my understanding is
of these types of games
and it's not necessarily kind of
laggy stick figures like axia infinity
looked like
so
it's going to be really interesting to
see this kind of play out over time
now
something that i think is becoming more
and more interesting is this use of the
word metaverse and use of the word game
fi
what is game fi
and how does it differ from
other
games that are out there you know like i
can trade items on third-party
marketplaces even though they're not
necessarily crypto
so how does game fight kind of
become a concept
that changes
the gaming industry well first of all uh
game fi and meteors are two different
things
gamepl
maybe i'm wrong
be careful because i'm not a specialist
so you can't have a wrong answer from me
but that's my personal opinion
there is the default
so
it's the
finance crypto finance
decentralized sometimes
try to be decentralized the thing is
that
as soon as you give to the people
the power of their violence it changed
everything because actually the all the
players in the finance they are
making a lot of money they give you just
small piece of the cake and so as soon
as you you understand that how the defy
is working
like
just you participate in some
liquidity pool you you're stacking a
little bit you realize that there is a
lot of money to make
beyond what the banks can offer you if
you block your money for one year for
you're gonna give you two persons come
on you can do two percent a month uh by
very easily if you control everything
so
what the crypto does is gives the
control of finance but the users the the
one who owned the money and so that's
what satoshi uh said in white paper he
said well we just removed the third
party that and we replace it by matpat
mathematic don't get well they get a
commission but it's not
like
the banking industry that's feeding from
your money
and making all these billions that
should be in your architecture so the
game file is just applying this
true
gamification you you play a game and
instead of having
i don't want to say always the same name
but a big company you know all these big
companies gaming company they are worth
a lot of money but how many employees
there i mean the the one i know whose
name is starting by you
they have 19 000 employees that's
ridiculous how many games they are
making so
this cost a lot of money where they get
this money they get the money from the
license building and then
who has the idea to make these games
whoever had their game to make this game
they are not getting away
so
the
game file is giving the opportunity to
creators who are making games to become
rich
sometimes immensely
which i think it's deserved if you
create the game
so
that's the
the interesting thing the the second
thing is what is the metabolism
so a lot of people are using the word
diversity
we are making a boxing game in summer we
are making a football game it's a little
bit blah blah blah what i see is that
there is no metabolic listing today and
you can see your facebook they try they
have all the money for that they have
all the they communicate like crazy they
even change their name and it's it's a
failure nobody wants to go away so
maybe it's not that old
maybe you you cannot just take something
and say oh this is a vr application it's
a metaphor people are not stupid
what they want material and metaphors
will exist
but
it will not be a supermarket it's a
amazon
cover that or lazada or alibaba i think
you will never have something
more
easy to use than the search engine you
you type what you want you have the
picture you click you buy i mean if you
have to walk and find a pen
and try to fit it to your virtual avatar
well good luck with that and secondly
everybody is going in the wrong
direction i think they think that
metaverse has to be a vr
well that's because of the
vr industry
failed
they tried to sell their vr and said and
everything and people they got like oh
wow okay it's good for
attractions like you go five minutes in
the in the place where there are some
you know
and you you pay ten bucks and then you
you do it five minutes and hahaha it was
funny oh i almost puked so
it's like a roller coaster yeah the same
thing you're not gonna have a
rollercoaster
in your garden and do it every day for
five hours
nobody's going to do that so but they
want to sell their headset and so they
thought oh yeah
we're going to sell our stuff we just
have to rename that
no it's not going to work because it
didn't work before
and also
vrs make you say i mean if you test it
it's really intense it's really amazing
but after 10 minutes you're like
oh i'm gonna die
if i continue to do this it's too
intense so i think they are going wrong
direction by making it like a mandatory
that you will have a vr headset that's
why meditation is going to work on
whatever maybe your vr in the future but
first we are doing on the screen
so and and they are going in the wrong
direction because also they are all
all these companies are globalists
and they have the same opinion about
okay we are going to do something and
billions of people are going to play
with it and we're gonna control that
this is the opposite of what the crypto
this is super centralized twitter is
super centralized facebook instagram
everybody is
fair about that now you play with
youtube and you have to see an
advertising of a car while you're
looking
something that's totally different and
you have to wait 15 seconds
people are fed up with that so i think
the meteors should be and that's my
vision of that should be something that
the opposite of what people are doing
it's a safe place for your brain safe
place for your finance it's a place
where you're not gonna have someone who
is checking what you're doing
can stop your money because you'll say
something wrong
etc etc that's why amit iceland is
designed in the way that nobody can
supervise it it's uh each iceland is one
thousand also whatever happened in one
iceland is not gonna
change the world you know che guevara is
not going to come in on iceland and make
a speech it's not going to happen so
then therefore there is no need of a
supervision from the fbi or whatever it
will be impossible to track what's
happening in mid-iceland and i think
that people they need to have a
proximity and
something that is more tailored to their
culture their
language
and be the opposite of what twitter and
everything does
that's where i'm digging hopefully
people will like
i think it's resumed
the idea you see
so
you
kind of alluded to it in what you were
just saying but something that i've seen
in a lot of the conversations and
outreach you've done is med island is
going to have this toxic free
environment and i kind of get the idea
that
you're talking more at like a global
level like toxic free meaning we're not
having
the opinion of some sort of mainstream
media
uh kind of you know putting that into
our our minds or enforcing it into the
gameplay or into the environment we live
in
so that's kind of like the bigger scale
but when you're also talking toxic free
are you also referencing kind of like
the crappy behavior that people can have
online
what do you mean when you say uh meta
island's gonna be a toxic free
environment if you take meta iceland and
you see the picture you think okay it's
like a far cry kind of game
but if you think about it at this
deeper level better island is not a game
in the sense that there is no script
you're not going to be in a place people
are going to say oh you need to do that
like gta you you have a feeling of open
world but actually
there is a spread you know that
if you want to go to this point you need
to go to this villa and talk to this guy
bring him this thing for this place
blah blah blah so there's a
script every game has a script but
if you take me to iceland and you see
how its design is designed to be an
alternate reality and what makes that
possible is crypto because if you have a
real economy economy
is the spine of uh every society so if
you have a real economy and then on the
top of that you create a social system
with different brands and you can
improve your rank by helping people blah
blah blah
when you close to have
a simulation of a world it's it's more
than just a game so the experiment here
is that we are going to put players in
situation where they they have to decide
by themselves what we're good at we have
some gaming mechanics for example the
iceland need to be take care of
otherwise it's dying and everybody lose
everything and it's starting so there is
a motivation to say okay if we stay on
the beach and we just uh throw that each
over and do some stupid things then it's
reset
okay let's get organized because there
is a play to earn and you don't want to
to lose this opportunity to make some
money
so
toxic free for me is is to create an
alternate reality where you're not
bullied
where
you're not inserted or you're not a
slave i mean you were already i mean
reality really
you if you take the covet you take the
inflation you take the war you take i
mean there is a pile of crap and people
have to handle that all day
most people have problems with their
wife kids because they don't have the
time to take care of them and the
education is not and blah blah blah i
mean reality stuff if you think about
adam and eve when we come
as cavemen we were able to wake up at
time we want
okay we didn't have medicine but we were
very cool you know that was a great life
now the life we have is really
so how we can experiment a different
kind of associate we cannot do it in
real life you cannot say okay i'm the
president of this country and we're
gonna change every we are in the global
world but
beta isn't is the kind of simulation
where we're gonna experiment things
and i think that people are gonna be
happy to have their second life because
with iceland is simulation about the
weather it's a simulation about animals
about people working
crops and economy and
there is a lot of things that are
connecting with the real world without
the negative so i think before after
work they're going to have the choice
okay and it's not only about meta islam
it's about the future of the metabolism
they're gonna have to trust okay do i
look cnn or
cnbc or whatever for news i'm gonna be
depressed after that for sure
you can see how many people have taken
medicine the antidepressants in in the
u.s i i checked that 41
i mean that's crazy
it's a crazy number so people are
sick of it but they have no idea
actually if you you don't have the
choice you have to believe and you have
to
to accept
so the idea is to say okay mr verse
gonna be something different that's
gonna be close to reality enough so that
you can connect on it where you can make
money which is a
real modification
where you can run a business which is
another motivation and when it's gonna
you're gonna be more happy just you're
gonna be yourself
you're not gonna play a role because
you're scared or anything you can be
yourself and if you don't not happy in
this iceland you go in another way
you're just gonna be what you want
and what is the alternative after you
work well you can look the television or
you can play a metaverse i think
metaverse is gonna have some success
that's very much a ready player one
sort of future that you're kind of
preparing for
yeah i remember this movie but there was
some scary thing in this movie
the the thing is really player one was a
global as soon as you are local you're
with 1000 people max it's like your
neighborhood yeah that's really cool so
thanks for kind of breaking that down it
seems like your concept of toxic free is
very
kind of like large scale but then at the
same time kind of narrowing in
there is one thing players like to
destroy everything and people come to
yeah it's real fun i loved
so i have a lot of people coming to uh
well if i want to kill everybody if i
want it's like a motivation to be the
best one you know you kill everybody wow
and the best my answer to that is you
have so many games that can do it you
have many choice to do it
but i don't want to go in that direction
i'm gonna do something else
with the hope that a lot of people are
gonna think okay i cannot help the
planet i feel powerless but i can be in
this small place where there are some
people i know because i talk with them
and i want to help them get more money
and that's my motivation so it's going
to be something different but it's not
going to be something where you you can
have negativity like killing all the
people if they are animals you're not
gonna kill them i mean
why killing a small dog you know
this can be fun but you can kill the
fish because they are mutant they are
big yeah so something that is really
interesting that i think cryptocurrency
inherently have is that their free
market
that anybody has access to them across
the world as long as you have a mobile
wallet and a cell phone
so in meta island it sounds like while
you can kill everyone
and you can kill animals for no reason
that maybe these free market principles
if people can buy into them together
then they'll be incentivized to
participate in the journey participate
in the script and really work together
to move forward exactly so that's kind
of uh something that's really
interesting about how cryptocurrency and
blockchain
makes this possible so
i want to be respectful of your time so
i kind of want to wrap up but i want to
hear more
about
how you're integrating just blockchain
in general into the game you have the
isl token you have the walk currency and
then there are also nfts so i know that
this could probably be
a multi-hour conversation but what are
the ways that you're integrating
blockchain technology into the game
across just tokens and across nfts could
you just kind of brain dump that on me
actually the game is really built around
crypto i mean crypto is the core every
core of the story when you read the
story you realize that all the problems
that happen in the world come from the
crypto crystals that are changing the
dna and that so all the super powers
from crypto so in the game there is
crypto everywhere and it's common in
different uh fashion
first of course there is the the local
crypto you see some crystal you can take
them you have crypto it's worth nothing
no
you can convert that to the local
currency because you need to eat you
need to drink otherwise you're dying so
there are some things you need to do
have around
the work is the local currency it's a
stable
because i don't want people buy a beer
and the price of the beer change all the
time
so a beer is 30 bucks or 30 work
the work is a one third of a dollar at
the beginning then it's going to divert
depending on what the dollar are doing
but the price inside the meters are not
going to be
so it's a stable coin and it's
interesting to think that
i'm creating a stable coin that is not
uh bind
to a real current i think it's the first
time because if you think about it with
dt everything is bind to the law euro
whatever but here we are creating an
economy river social system and the
stable code that is based on this
economy that's a pure stable coin
based on crypto and it's interesting to
see how far it will go
because if you have one million people
working playing with the game then we
will have an economy with a stable
current that is gonna be like
well a small country currency you know
so yeah that's interesting but the work
is only to use internally for now so
okay you find your crystal you have in
your inventory then you can
convert the crystal and then that's when
the cooperation comes useful because
depending on how you convert that you
can make a lot more or a lot people are
smart about mixed money you're gonna
understand quickly like for example if
you're wrong in your social ranking high
you're gonna get more money from this
creator and if you have a specific nft
that's the red card nft the red cards
are the lucky guys then it's gonna be
more than that because people can tip
each other they're gonna think okay we
have one guy who is wrong five and he
has red carpet we're gonna tape him
we're gonna give him the crypto and
we're gonna make like twice more
there are a lot of mechanisms that are
uh working in the game that people will
discover if they are smart and they are
gonna talk about it in youtube because
it's real money
so as soon as real money you find
something it's worth some something
so i'm confident that people are gonna
like
so okay you have your crystal whatever
the solution you convert it into work no
you have work
what you can do with work you can buy in
the game whatever food fireworks weapons
but you can also send it to your wallet
how you do that it's working actually
you can go into your
id your profile
and here you have
you have a
new finance material
and isl
org that's the four coin we are
supporting and then you can just say
okay i want to send it to this address
boom work is converted into isl isl
will be
will have a value so then at this time
there is a there is a conversion that is
going to be different depending on how
the value of isl then you convert to neo
then you convert to whatever and you
send it to your wallet you pay only the
fee to receive the money you don't pay
the fee to send
because uh we are pretty so basically
you find crypto you take it you convert
it to work you go into your profile and
you send the work to your new wallet and
it's working you are doing it on tesla
and then the problem is where this money
comes from actually
because you find the crypto someone has
to pay that you know
and it comes from the owner of the
actually the owners of the iceland are
franchised we we will have some iceland
also starting but after we're gonna sell
them we're gonna give a api k and
everybody will be able to launch
business based on that the thing is that
in order to play with the game you need
to have to pay a monthly fee and this
monthly fee is what is filling
the iceland with rewards the owner of
the iceland decide how much you keep for
himself and how much he reinjects inside
the iceland so the system is making a
circle that is not using our wallet it's
not using our token so the value of auto
stable we are not printing we will have
to print if we need more liquidity
because we're going to have more more
eyes but
i think it's a pretty smart uh way to
handle the problem of liquidity and
depleting the token on the long term
which is the main issue for many many
campfire games
and about the entities we have seven
factions each faction has a super power
like one faction can swim one faction
can resist the poison so
the people who can rent or nfps
leave work so like you're playing you
make some you'll find some
some crypto you can rent an nft and then
if you rent a red car and if even you're
more lucky you find crypto and you make
more money when you convert it there are
a lot of
things that's going on so we have seven
factions each has a special power each
have a story that is written about 100
pages for each
we have written all the stories of
faction how they were created who uh
where the guys and this uh
idea that the crypto is there is a
crypto infection that's come from an
asterisk so it
blows on the earth it makes this small
crystal go inside the body of people and
people have their dna changing and some
people they get supercovered like
superman and uh with the card
then you can temporarily have the power
of these people
so you will have a
portfolio or or nfts and you will change
depending on what you want to do you
want to swim you take an equipment you
want to be lucky you take a red car you
want to fight you take your military so
you will change that and we have a 3d
and f2 which has complete skills so at
the same time there are like rpg
force
speed etcetera and depending on what you
want to do you can change it to the nfts
which are the proprietary nfks and you
can change also you can select a new
character with gonna be a small case or
a big monster or you can change that all
of that nfts and you can rent them you
don't have the money so there is a huge
huge economy based on the isl on the
nfts
and i just scratch the surface because
when you rent a shop photo it is
stacking when you stack something you
don't here we are players we we don't
want to explain what is packing to the
players say okay this shop you put ten
thousand work and uh you're gonna have
this api
and every month you get more work it's
stacking but it's actually you you rent
a shop and you get the benefit of the
the sales of the shop we so we translate
everything in game but it's defined
actually that's really cool so it sounds
like nfts will
represent characters and they'll also
represent sort of level up or power-ups
for those characters depending on yeah
it's kind of booster boosters yeah
exactly and we have pass the password is
for the dao because we are going to do
this game is not going to be finished we
are developing forever so we will have
to kind of pass and this past we will be
voting right so we will say okay do you
want to have more
alcohol
or do you want to have more bars or do
you want to have more monsters or do you
want to redevelop more than underwater
swimming and stuff and people will be
able to be able to walk with these
passes very cool it sounds really
interesting and uh a lot of innovative
and unique ways that nfts are going to
be integrated into the game in addition
to the use of the cryptocurrencies
so kind of wrapping up if somebody wants
to
get involved with meta island
how can they do that are you guys
looking for alpha testers
when will you be looking for alpha
testers if not what are sort of the next
steps and and how can somebody who wants
to
help you guys out how can they get
involved well the first thing is talking
about
awareness because we are developing the
game so it's good to follow our
telegram or twitter just to know where
we are because when we're going to go
public we have the maker who's going to
launch us and uh i know personally the
founder uh hattu who is uh involved in
the game he's
talking with me every month
passionate about meta iceland so we're
gonna be
pushed and now of course you know
they're following the project for one
year so in october it's going to be one
year so we we have friends we are not
alone
so
just follow when when we're going to go
public and buy it so
because we're going to go like this and
i also
just spread the awareness about this
project because there are so much
times around this project is very solid
i mean you will never invest into this
project if they were
if it was not something that they
they trust
absolutely well nicholas thank you so
much for coming to join the pod i was
really excited to chat with you uh when
we first started communicating on
telegram
and when i started to dig into meta
island and see the great graphics and
the really cool kind of metaverse that
you're trying to build
and just kind of incorporating all this
experience using new technology it was
really exciting to see
obviously writing for neo news today i
can't wait to continue covering the
project
and i look forward to
spreading the word as updates are made
so thank you so much for coming to join
the podcast i know it's late over there
so i really appreciate it it was great
great to talk with you i'm always uh
excited to talk about the project and
thank you for opening this podcast so
that i can explain
what iceland is awesome well thank you
so much for coming to join and i look
forward to having you join on the
podcast again at some point in the
future okay thank you very much have a
great night
cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation i thought it was really
cool to follow the progression of
nicholas's career
and how his early experiences in the
gaming industry shaped how his
perspective of the ownership over meta
island is enhanced by
cryptocurrency-based fundraising in a
way that triple-a gaming studios and
traditional funding couldn't offer
it was also interesting to hear more
about his outlook on building a
metaverse and that the team is
approaching a console pc version of the
game over a vr headset concept
and i'm looking forward to seeing how
the game theory for players cooperating
through shared mutual interests on each
of the islands will actually play out on
that note i want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast
if you liked what you heard and want to
support the show
please keep neonews today in mind when
voting for your neo council
representative as part of neo's
governance process
we appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time
you